# Section 4 | 5 June 

* Once React render the DOM, it never repeats the function calling. So we can't update data via variable. We need State.
* If you have data & that needs changing, use State.
* useState always returns an array of data.
* State is a per component instance. Use it for the smallest component to not have effects on other components.
* It's OK to have multiple state via useState. Especially in forms.
* If you use single state(obj inside), then you'll have to update everything always.
* It's efficient to use rest operator(...) when you update the state's other keys.
* Max prefers individual states.
* It's not so OK to use rest operator to parse data from the state obj.
* Whenever you update state and you depend on the previous state, don't use (...) operator.
* You should call a function inside your setState and get the prevState from React and then return the new state obj.

```js
setState((prevState) => {
		return {
			...prevState,
			title: e.target.value,
		};
});
```


* Two Way Binding: we can not only listen to input field but we can change the value if we want.
* This can help us on resetting our state on some action like submit.

* We can send data one level up via passing function on custom JSX attribute on the upper level component and via props on the lower level component.
* So the custom attribute get the data on the function call in the child component.


* Basically when you're using two way binding, you're controlling the component. 
* It means you're sending and getting data via props.




