# Section 9 | Fragments, Portals & Refs

### 100 - 102 | Fragments

* We can't return two adjacent JSX elements.
* React only reutrn one value, not two. It should've only one root.
* This is not possible by vanilla JS. You can't return two statements.
* To get the job done, just enclose them in a div.
* We could use an array but React will ask for a `key`. We can set the keys too. But that will be a lot of work. Rather use a JSX/ HTML element.
* But adding `<div>` may give us `<div> Soup`, meaning a tons of divs. 
* The unnecessary divs may break CSS styles.
* That's why the wrapping idea is not ideal too. 😐️


```js
 return (
   <h2>Hi There</h2>
   <p>This doesn't work in JSX</p>
```

* To avoid the above mentioned problem we can create a non-JSX component which will only return the `props.children`. 
* In this case React gives us `React.Fragment` or `<>`. The shorter syntax doesn't do anything to the HTML but make sense to only JSX.
* If you use `React.Fragment`, make sure you import `React`. Otherwise it won't work. But the shorter syntax will work.
* If you import `{ Fragment }` from 'react', then just use `Fragment` not `React.Fragment`.


### 103 - 104 | Portals

* While we render things like, modals, side drawer, dialog box etc in the main JSX structure. I mean a modal can be in the middle of the page. It's alright but not a good practice. 
* By using Portals we can keep a component on the bottom or the top of the page. 
* By doing this, it'll have more a11y friendly.
* Portal needs two things. A port, where to put the component. And let the component know that should have a portal to that place.
* PORT: Go to the index.html file and multiple roots on top of the `<div id="root"></div>`.

```html
  <div id="backdrop-root"></div>
  <div id="overlay-root"></div>  
  <div id="root"></div>
```

* KNOW: Make seperate variables to store seperate roots with their JSX.
* React.DOM uses React to push things on top of the DOM tree.
* Import ReactDOM from 'react-dom'.
* On ReactDOM, you can work on `.createPortal()` method.
* `.createPortal()` takes two things. a) the node that is going to be rendered(give JSX, not just the variable), b) getElementById('id-name').
* Pass the props in the (a) JSX. 


### 105 | Refs

* Refs are basically reference of some data in React.
* They allow us to get access to other DOM elements and work with them.
* It takes a default value as an input.
* It returns a value that allow us to work on it.
* By `ref` prop, we can assign it to the selected item.
* `ref` gives us an object. So we can catch the value by `refName.current.value`. 
* We should only use ref for reading data.
* It's ok to manipulate refs but not a good practice.




